

Swami Vivekananda was never tired of singing the glories of Bhagavad Gita, the Song Celestial, which according to him was the best commentary on the Vedas that has been written or can ever be written. He declared that this wonderful poem, the Gita, is a great source of strength without any note of weakness or unmanliness in it. He wanted both the young and the old to study the Gita and assimilate Sri Krishna?s teachings. In spite of grand philosophical overtones, Sri Krishna?s emphasis is primarily ethical and psychological, having immense practical relevance to us for elevating and transforming our lives.

To help the reader to begin his or her day with an inspiring and instructive verse from the Bhagavad Gita, we have in this booklet attempted a datewise compilation of selected verses told by Sri Krishna that are more practical than philosophical, more for contemplation than for reasoning. Apart from the original Sanskrit verses, we have also included the English translations of either Revered Swami Vireswaranandaji Maharaj or Revered Swami Tapasyanandaji Maharaj for the benefit of those who cannot follow the original.

As all who have read the Gita know, many of the verses have to be read in correlation with the previous or the next verse, and some of them have complete meaning only when combined with the previous or the next verse. Such being the case, it has been a challenge to compile such verses as an independent daily quote. However, considering the importance of these verses, we have nevertheless included them (in preference to other verses) in this compilation. The readers are therefore requested to kindly read such verses contextually.

We have used some of the sketches of Sri Maniam Selvan had drawn for the Tamil booklet, Srimad Bhagavad Gitai, published by our Math since the year 2011. Sri P. Sundarrajan has worked on the layout and cover design. We pray to Sri Krishna to bless all those who have contributed to the preparation of this booklet.

We hope the quotes in this booklet will chime every dawn for the reader to draw inspiration and wisdom from Sri Krishna?s Song Celestial.