
What is education? And why do we get educated? We may say that the general aim of education is to secure degrees and by that means good jobs. Earning sufficient money gives the assurance of being able to lead a secure life. But education does not mean mere possession of degrees certificates jobs and wealth. According to Swami Vivekananda education should be 'Man making and Character building.'

This can be achieved only by exposing the students to value-oriented education. It is interesting to note that when teachers and parents try to impart value education not only helps the students all-round personality development but also helps parents and teachers repent themselves. This gives them a sense of satisfaction and makes their lives happier and more meaningful. Value education helps an individual to equip himself with spiritual values so that you may face the trials and tribulations of human existence with equanimity.

All knowledge is within. All that the teachers and parents actually do is to help bring out that knowledge. Similarly all good and bad tendencies are latent in the hearts of young. Parents and teachers should help them root out the bad tendencies and develop the good. Spirituality plays a great role in developing the character of the young.

What the children today need is a philosophy to live by. Thy need to be illustrated with interesting incidents examples and insights to help the students reach excellence and reap success. An attempt has been made in this booklet in this direction and we hope it will be a source of inspiration to those who are to mould the character of the young.

Contents:

 	All Power Is Within
 	Discovery Of Gravitation
 	Where Is The Power?
 	Think not you are weak
 	Truthfulness
 	The King And The Prisoners
 	Goddess of truth
 	Forgiveness
 	Forgiving Is Greatness
 	Compassion
 	The Compassionate Mohammed
 	Live For Others
 	Fearlessness
 	Valour Even In Childhood
 	The Brave Jhansi Rani
 	Hard Work
 	A Determined Mind
 	Do Not Fear Examinations
 	Exercise For Health
 	Out To Do These Exercises

&nbsp;