Publishing Date: April, 2012
Swami Vivekananda's 150th Birth Anniversary Publication.
Swami Vivekananda was a multifaceted genius. While his spiritual imminence and the profound understanding of India and her culture, history, and future are well known, his insights in physical sciences are lesser known. Swamiji was well-acquainted with the scientific thoughts of his times and was remarkably accurate in his observations and conclusions with regard to many scientific notions. What is even more important is the ample hints he gave on ways to train the mind, arousing the unseen power of intuition, which is vital to all scientific pursuits. This intuitive aspect of Swamiji?s personality has not been sufficiently highlighted hitherto.
The following pages are an earnest attempt in this direction. The author, a person of scientific pursuits and thinking, has dealt with various aspects of Swamiji's ideas, drawing parallels from various scientific works and explores the role of intuition in scientific discoveries.
(The first edition of this book was brought out in May 2011 by Sri Nithyananda Prakashana, Bangalore.)
Contents:


 	An Overview of the Book
 	Swami Vivekananda: A Brief Life Sketch
 	Classical Science and Intuitive Science
 	Role of Intuition in Science and New Discoveries
 	Eurekas!
 	Man's Quest for Truth and Swami Vivekananda's Contributions
 	Swami Vivekananda on Physics: On theory of Relativity, theory of Unity
 	Swami Vivekananda on Biological Sciences
 	Swami Vivekananda on Chemical Sciences
 	Swami Vivekananda as an Intuitive Scientist
 	Elements of Scientific Method
 	Is Intuitive Knowledge Scientific?
 	How to Develop our Intuition
 	Intuitive Knowledge Development
 	Intuition and Extraordinary Sense-Perception
 	Integrated Personality ? Knowledge Synthesis of East And West
 	Evolution of an Integrated Personality
 	Role of Intuition / Imagination In Creative Science
 	Ancient Intuitive Scientific Knowledge

Book Review:
Swami Vivekananda was a multifaceted genius. Besides his profound insights into spiritual life, Swamiji was well acquainted with the scientific thoughts of his times and was remarkably accurate in his observations with regard to many scientific notions. What is even more important is the ample hints he gave on ways to train the mind, arousing the unseen power of intuition, which is vital to all scientific pursuits. This book attempts to explore this aspect of Swamiji?s personality.
The author of the book is a retired scientist of ISRO, Bangalore.