Publishing Date: Feb-2012
Sri Ramakrishna's 175th Birth Anniversary Publication.
Like the Gentle Dew - Exploring the Literary Movement Inspired by Ramakrishna-Vivekananda.
A Bird's Eye-view of the Influence of Life and Teachings of Sri Ramakrishna and Swami Vivekananda on Contemporary Literature in Different Indian Languages.
While speaking of the Influence of the Indian thoughts on world culture, Swami Vivekananda said (Complete Works, p3.110),
Slow and silent, as the gentle dew that falls in the morning, and seen and unheard yet producing a most tremendous result, has been the work of the calm, patient, all-suffering spiritual race upon the world of thought.
Something similar can be said of the influence of Ramakrishna?Vivekananda ideology on contemporary Indian literature. Numerous books and articles on Ramakrishna?Vivekananda that have been written by eminent persons or by unheard of writers alike bear a testimony to the silent work that has been going on in the last hundred years.
India is a rich land with the mind?boggling cultural diversities and numerous languages like Hindi, Bengali, Gujarati, Malayalam, Kannada, Tamil, Marathi, Assamese, etc. Many contemporary writers in these languages have been deeply influenced and motivated by Ramakrishna ? Vivekananda ideology.
This has found, and continues to find, expression in their powerful literary works. In order to make approximate assessment of the way Ramakrishna?Vivekananda have influential contemporary Indian literary traditions, The Vedanta Kesari requested noted writers in these languages to trace the history, growth and the richness of this influence on contemporary works, for publication in its column. Besides, the four appendices on this theme will prove useful to this series of articles.
These articles are now presented in this book form on the happy occasion of 175thBirth Anniversary of Sri Ramakrishna.
Book Review:
The book documents the influence of Ramakrishna - Vivekananda on literary traditions in Hindi, Bengali,Malayalam, Gujarati, Kannada, Tamil, Marathi and Telugu. Many contemporary writers in these languages have been deeply influenced by Ramakrishna-Vivekananda ideology. ?Slow and silent, as the gentle dew that falls in the morning, unseen and unheard yet producing a most tremendous result, has been the work of the calm, patient, all-suffering spiritual race upon the world of thought. ? Something similar can be said of the influence of Ramakrishna-Vivekananda ideology on contemporary Indian literature.