*This book is for sale in India only and cannot be exported.

This book The Wonder that is Sri Ramakrishna is an English translation of the original work Sri Sri Ramakrishna - Mahima in Bengali by Akshay Kumar Sen, a householder disciple of Sri Ramakrishna.


Book Review:
Sri Ramakrishna is worshipped by millions as an Incarnation of God. However, very few could comprehend his greatness, his ecstatic moods and Samadhi when he was living. The author of the book under review, Sri Akshay Kumar Sen, was one among them. The book has a great historical value so far as the history of Ramakrishna- Vivekananda literature is concerned.
Akshay Kumar Sen, a householder devotee of Sri Ramakrishna, is well-known as the writer of Sri Sri Ramakrishna Punthi, a long narrative poem in Bengali on the life and divine play of Sri Ramakrishna. Since its publication more than a hundred years ago, it continues to be read in most Bengal villages with the same devotion and fervour as the Indian epics, the Ramayana and Mahabharata. The present book is the English translation of Akshay Kumar Sen?s Sri Sri Ramakrishna Mahima.
The book opens with the conversations and mature reflections between two friends on Sri Ramakrishna; they subsequently approach a devotee of Sri Ramakrishna to satiate their hunger to know more regarding his life. The first four chapters introduce Sri Ramakrishna and from the fifth chapter onwards, the devotee draws up the glorious and enlightening portrait of Sri Ramakrishna and his divine play. The devotee (the author himself) is inundated with the devotion for Sri Ramakrishna, and he beautifully explains the significance of Sri Ramakrishna?s life and teachings with suitable examples and establishes him as a Divine Incarnation, by chanting whose name one can instantly remove all sins and sufferings. He advises, ?Dive deep into the ocean of Sri Ramakrishna?s Lila, then you will find precious gems.?
Sitting alongside this ?devotee?, we witness Sri Ramakrishna?s spiritual ecstasy, his amazing insights into spiritual life, his wonderful anecdotes, his straightforward teachings imbued with deep philosophy, and his advice for common people yearning to know God. The stories of the disciples of Sri Ramakrishna are also described in swift sketches. The narrative abounds with incidents and anecdotes, enlivened by the author?s commentary interspersed with devotional verses composed by the author as also those sung by Sri Ramakrishna.
Having read the book, one indeed marvels at the wonder that was Sri Ramakrishna. An unlettered person, unostentatious and simple, he experienced God not only through Hinduism but also other religions. Having walked the path to God, he is best suited to give us authentic knowledge and guidance. No wonder, today his teachings permeate the Interfaith Movement, New Age thoughts, Yoga and modern Hinduism.
The translation is lucid and clear, capturing the interest of the readers all throughout. The reader experiences Sri Ramakrishna?s living presence and feels that the reading of the book is as revitalizing as a bath in the limpid waters of the Ganga.
Swami Bhaskarananda, the Head of the Vedanta Society of Western Washington, Seattle, U.S.A. and Sri Ramakrishna Math, Chennai, deserve gratitude of Sri Ramakrishna?s devotees.